Now let's replace some more of
these stubs with real functions.
Let's start by creating a new phone.
First, let me show you what
this version will run like.
They're the ones that we built in,
here's a new one,
enter the data for the new phone.
George Costanza,
(212) 835-1419.
Then we show, and there's George.
Now we can delete something too.
Well, which one do you want to delete?
We'll delete George.
And now he's gone.
That's what's new in this version.
First, let's start with
how you create a phone.
When you create a phone, it's going to
print enter the data for a new phone.
There it is.
Then you're going to use
an input to get the new name.
You're going to get the input
to get a new phone number.
Then you're going to build the sub list,
name, and phone number.
And then you gotta append
it onto the phones list.
And then you skip a line.
That's all there is to it.
Enter the name, enter the number.
Build a phone new sub list.
Append it to the phones list.
Here with the phone's list here.
Starts with Jerry Seinfeld and
Cosmo Kramer.
Now, let's look at delete,
that's a little bit more complex.
Now down in the main loop.
When you choose delete, it's going to
ask which item do you want to delete.
And we print, which one it is for
the time being, and
then we'll try to delete that one.
Here's the delete function.
First of all, we check to see
if there's a proper menu choice.
At the time we did this deletion,
there were only three people in there.
I asked for number 17.
He couldn't do it.
So we're going to check to see if
that's a legitimate menu choice.
Also, if you typed in a letter or
something like that.
If we want to filter that out.
So we're going to write a routine
that'll check to see if
that is a proper menu choice and
if it's not,
we're just going to return
without deleting the funnel.
If it is a proper menu choice,
I want to change it to an integer.
And then I'm going to delete one of them.
Now remember, we count these one,
two, three, four,
five, those are the phone lines.
But Python counts zero, one, two, three.
So what we have to do is
reduce that by one and
then we delete that item
from the phone's list.
And then we'll print that we deleted it.
Now let's take a look at this
proper menu choice business.
We pass this switch onto that
proper menu choice function.
Now remember which came from an input
statement, so it's a string.
Now we're going to have
to convert to a number.
So first of all, we're going to need
to check to see if it's digits in them.
If it has something in it,
which is not a digit then which
is digit will return false?
So not is digit would be true and
we would print
this which needs to be a number
of a phone and return false.
If it returns false to delete phone,
then not false would be true and it
would return without deleting the phone.
So the first thing that happens is
we check to see if it's a number.
And if it is a number,
we'll convert it to an integer.
Now there's another problem.
It could be a negative number.
We could have three phones and
it be the number 217.
We check to see what this negative or
whether it's a bigger
number than our phones.
If so, we'll print that it needs
to be the number of the phone.
And then we'll return false so that delete
phone will not attempt to delete it.
Now if it passes this test that it's
a number, it converts to a number and
it's a number that's within the proper
range, then we're going to consider it
an acceptable number to delete and
we'll return true.
So to summarize, delete phones will
be passed which phone to delete.
It will check to see if that's a number,
and it's a number within the proper range,
and if it is,
it'll convert it to an integer and
it'll delete that particular
phone from the phone's list.